PT J
AU Ning, X
   Paskyabi, MB
AF Ning, Xu
   Paskyabi, Mostafa Bakhoday
TI Parameterization of Wave-Induced Stress in Large-Eddy Simulations of the
   Marine Atmospheric Boundary Layer
SO JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-OCEANS
LA English
DT Article
DE wave-induced stress; marine atmospheric boundary layer; large-eddy
   simulation
ID SEA MOMENTUM FLUX; WIND STRESS; SURFACE-WAVES; OCEAN WAVES; SWELL;
   IMPACT; TURBULENCE; ROUGHNESS; SPECTRUM; MODELS
AB Large-eddy simulations (LES) of the Marine Atmospheric Boundary Layer (MABL) commonly utilize roughness length to parameterize wave effects on the sea surface. However, this method might not adequately capture the intricacies of wind-wave interactions, especially in swell-dominated conditions. In this study, we integrated a wave-induced stress parameterization method into the open-source LES code, PArallel Large-eddy simulation Model (PALM), and assessed its performance under low wind conditions with varying wave ages and directions. Our method treats windsea effects as surface friction while employing an exponentially decaying profile to represent swell-induced stress. We examined the model's sensitivity to wind and wave parameters and calibrated the wave damping rate values across various scenarios, leveraging data from wave-phase-resolved simulations and field measurements. The enhanced LES model with the proposed wave parameterization effectively reproduces wave-influenced wind characteristics such as upward momentum flux, low-level wind maximum, and negative wind gradients, showing good agreement with previous numerical and observational data. Moreover, our model accounts for wind-wave misalignment scenarios by calculating each directional and spectral wave stress component individually and integrating them over the wave spectrum. We found that the swell-induced stress is the dominant force in the wave boundary layer (WBL) with low wind speed, with its magnitude significantly varying with the wave direction relative to the wind. This variation influences the dynamic equilibrium within the WBL, modifying both wind shear and wind veer, and these effects persist up to the top of the boundary layer flow.
   Ocean waves significantly impact the atmospheric boundary layer flow by modulating the momentum and energy exchange at the wind-wave interface. Understanding these effects is crucial for an accurate modeling of the atmosphere and ocean systems. We incorporated the wave-induced stress into the conventional logarithmic wind profile near the sea surface to improve the presentation of the wind-wave interaction in the numerical simulation. The enhanced model can reproduce complex processes such as the wind-wave misalignment effects, energy transfer from wave to wind field, and wave-induced jet flows. Our findings show that the wave stress is the dominant force in the wave boundary layer and its influence on wind varies with their direction relative to the wind. Swells that follow the wind reduce friction and accelerate wind speed, while opposing swells increase drag, potentially causing slower or even reversed near-surface winds. These wave impacts can extend to the top of the atmospheric boundary layer through turbulent mixing. Incorporating wave-induced stress into large-eddy simulations significantly enhances the representation of offshore wind fields and contributes to research on atmosphere-ocean interactions and offshore meteorology.
   Parameterization of wave-induced stress is integrated into a large-eddy simulation model and verified for the first time The wave growth/damping rate for the proposed parameterization is calibrated by comparison with numerical and observational data Wind-wave misalignment impacts the wind and turbulence by modifying the dynamic equilibrium in the wave boundary layer
C1 [Ning, Xu; Paskyabi, Mostafa Bakhoday] Univ Bergen, Geophys Inst, Bergen, Norway.
   [Ning, Xu; Paskyabi, Mostafa Bakhoday] Bergen Offshore Wind Ctr, Bergen, Norway.
C3 University of Bergen
RP Ning, X (通讯作者)，Univ Bergen, Geophys Inst, Bergen, Norway.; Ning, X (通讯作者)，Bergen Offshore Wind Ctr, Bergen, Norway.
EM xu.ning@uib.no
FU Academic agreement between University of Bergen and Equinor [102239114];
   University of Bergen; UNINETT Sigma2 - the National Infrastructure for
   High Performance Computing and Data Storage in Norway
FX This work is part of the LES-WIND project and the authors would like to
   acknowledge the funding from the academic agreement between University
   of Bergen and Equinor (Agreement No. 102239114). The simulations were
   performed on resources provided by UNINETT Sigma2 - the National
   Infrastructure for High Performance Computing and Data Storage in
   Norway.
NR 60
TC 0
Z9 0
U1 5
U2 7
PU AMER GEOPHYSICAL UNION
PI WASHINGTON
PA 2000 FLORIDA AVE NW, WASHINGTON, DC 20009 USA
SN 2169-9275
EI 2169-9291
J9 J GEOPHYS RES-OCEANS
JI J. Geophys. Res.-Oceans
PD SEP
PY 2024
VL 129
IS 9
AR e2023JC020722
DI 10.1029/2023JC020722
PG 27
WC Oceanography
WE Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED)
SC Oceanography
GA F3X5K
UT WOS:001309185500001
OA hybrid
DA 2025-05-29
ER
