PT J
AU Hissou, H
   Benkirane, S
   Guezzaz, A
   Azrour, M
   Beni-Hssane, A
AF Hissou, Hasna
   Benkirane, Said
   Guezzaz, Azidine
   Azrour, Mourade
   Beni-Hssane, Abderrahim
TI A Novel Machine Learning Approach for Solar Radiation Estimation
SO SUSTAINABILITY
LA English
DT Article
DE sustainable energy; solar radiation; times series; machine learning;
   feature selection; forecasting
ID ARTIFICIAL NEURAL-NETWORK; SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINE; PREDICTION; MODELS;
   TEMPERATURES; REGRESSION; SYSTEM; SVM
AB Solar irradiation (Rs) is the electromagnetic radiation energy emitted by the Sun. It plays a crucial role in sustaining life on Earth by providing light, heat, and energy. Furthermore, it serves as a key driver of Earth's climate and weather systems, influencing the distribution of heat across the planet, shaping global air and ocean currents, and determining weather patterns. Variations in Rs levels have significant implications for climate change and long-term climate trends. Moreover, Rs represents an abundant and renewable energy resource, offering a clean and sustainable alternative to fossil fuels. By harnessing solar energy, we can actively reduce greenhouse gas emissions. However, the utilization of Rs comes with its own challenges that must be addressed. One problem is its variability, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for consistent solar energy generation. Its intermittent nature also poses difficulties in meeting continuous energy demand unless appropriate energy storage or backup systems are in place. Integrating large-scale solar energy systems into existing power grids can present technical challenges. Rs levels are influenced by various factors; understanding these factors is crucial for various applications, such as renewable energy planning, climate modeling, and environmental studies. Overcoming the associated challenges requires advancements in technology and innovative solutions. Measuring and harnessing Rs for various applications can be achieved using various devices; however, the expense and scarcity of measuring equipment pose challenges in accurately assessing and monitoring Rs levels. In order to address this, alternative methods have been developed with which to estimate Rs, including artificial intelligence and machine learning (ML) models, like neural networks, kernel algorithms, tree-based models, and ensemble methods. To demonstrate the impact of feature selection methods on Rs predictions, we propose a Multivariate Time Series (MVTS) model using Recursive Feature Elimination (RFE) with a decision tree (DT), Pearson correlation (Pr), logistic regression (LR), Gradient Boosting Models (GBM), and a random forest (RF). Our article introduces a novel framework that integrates various models and incorporates overlooked factors. This framework offers a more comprehensive understanding of Recursive Feature Elimination and its integrations with different models in multivariate solar radiation forecasting. Our research delves into unexplored aspects and challenges existing theories related to solar radiation forecasting. Our results show reliable predictions based on essential criteria. The feature ranking may vary depending on the model used, with the RF Regressor algorithm selecting features such as maximum temperature, minimum temperature, precipitation, wind speed, and relative humidity for specific months. The DT algorithm may yield a slightly different set of selected features. Despite the variations, all of the models exhibit impressive performance, with the LR model demonstrating outstanding performance with low RMSE (0.003) and the highest R2 score (0.002). The other models also show promising results, with RMSE scores ranging from 0.006 to 0.007 and a consistent R2 score of 0.999.
C1 [Hissou, Hasna; Beni-Hssane, Abderrahim] Chouaib Doukkali Univ, Fac Sci Sci & Technol Res Struct, El Jadida 24000, Morocco.
   [Benkirane, Said; Guezzaz, Azidine] Cadi Ayyad Univ, Technol Higher Sch Essaouira, Essaouira 44000, Morocco.
   [Azrour, Mourade] Moulay Ismail Univ Meknes, Fac Sci & Tech, IDMS Team, Errachidia 25000, Morocco.
C3 Chouaib Doukkali University of El Jadida; Cadi Ayyad University of
   Marrakech; Moulay Ismail University of Meknes
RP Guezzaz, A (通讯作者)，Cadi Ayyad Univ, Technol Higher Sch Essaouira, Essaouira 44000, Morocco.; Azrour, M (通讯作者)，Moulay Ismail Univ Meknes, Fac Sci & Tech, IDMS Team, Errachidia 25000, Morocco.
EM hissou.h@ucd.ac.ma; said.benkirane@uca.ma; a.guezzaz@uca.ma;
   mo.azrour@umi.ac.ma; beni-hsaane.a@ucd.ac.ma
RI AZROUR, Mourade/G-4022-2017
OI AZROUR, Mourade/0000-0003-1575-8140; HISSOU, Hasna/0000-0003-0326-264X
NR 67
TC 23
Z9 23
U1 2
U2 30
PU MDPI
PI BASEL
PA ST ALBAN-ANLAGE 66, CH-4052 BASEL, SWITZERLAND
EI 2071-1050
J9 SUSTAINABILITY-BASEL
JI Sustainability
PD JUL
PY 2023
VL 15
IS 13
AR 10609
DI 10.3390/su151310609
PG 21
WC Green & Sustainable Science & Technology; Environmental Sciences;
   Environmental Studies
WE Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED); Social Science Citation Index (SSCI)
SC Science & Technology - Other Topics; Environmental Sciences & Ecology
GA M2CX2
UT WOS:001028323700001
OA gold
DA 2025-05-29
ER
