PT J
AU Barale, V
   Dusart, J
   Assouline, M
   Niceta, F
AF Barale, Vittorio
   Dusart, Jean
   Assouline, Michael
   Niceta, Fabrizio
TI European Atlas of the Seas: "a picture is worth a thousand words"
SO JOURNAL OF COASTAL CONSERVATION
LA English
DT Article; Proceedings Paper
CT 34th Annual Conference of the
   Working-Group-on-Coastal-and-Marine-Geography (AMK)
CY APR, 2016
CL Rostock, GERMANY
SP Working Grp Coastal & Marine Geog
DE Atlas; European seas; Coastal and marine environment; Maritime
   socio-economics
AB The European Atlas of the Seas offers a snapshot of environmental and socio-economic features that characterize the coastal and marine environment. The latest release (Version 4) addresses the public in general, but also non-specialist experts involved with environmental issues, human activities or policies related to Europe's coasts and seas. The information content of the Atlas comprises a series of geographical layers, subdivided in "background maps", "thematic maps" (i.e. maritime Europe, natural setting, sea bottom, sea level rise, security, transport, tourism, energy, wind, fisheries and fish consumption) and "do-it-yourself maps" (dealing with marine knowledge, nature and environment, socio-economics, fisheries, aquaculture, transport, energy, sea bed mining, coastal tourism, Maritime Spatial Planning, integrated maritime surveillance, and international ocean governance). All maps follow consistent cartographic rules and can be extracted for external use. The Atlas database is updated regularly, but historical data remain accessible after the updates, so that time series may be constructed. Tools for map exploration and combination can be used to combine together more layers, providing professional users with analysis and interpretation capabilities, to couple data into graphical indicators. The Atlas aims to supports also policy making, on marine environment, maritime issues and economic sectors, both within and outside the European Institutions (e.g. on Common Fisheries Policy or Maritime Spatial Planning). Further, it expands the same support to near-coastal issues and matters related to land-sea interactions. The web application for accessing Atlas contents offers links to other Marine Information Systems, and is available to a broad audience from computers, tablets and mobile devices.
C1 [Barale, Vittorio; Assouline, Michael] European Commiss, Joint Res Ctr, Directorate Sustainable Resources D, Ispra, Italy.
   [Dusart, Jean; Niceta, Fabrizio] European Commiss, Joint Res Ctr, Directorate Growth & Innovat B, Ispra, Italy.
   [Assouline, Michael] European Environm Agcy, European Neighbourhood Policy Activ, Copenhagen, Denmark.
   [Niceta, Fabrizio] Pianificaz Terr, Palermo, Italy.
C3 European Commission Joint Research Centre; EC JRC ISPRA Site; European
   Commission Joint Research Centre; EC JRC ISPRA Site
RP Barale, V (通讯作者)，European Commiss, Joint Res Ctr, Directorate Sustainable Resources D, Ispra, Italy.
EM Vittorio.BARALE@ec.europa.eu
OI Assouline, Michael/0009-0003-5173-7790
FU the European Commission (EC) Joint Research Centre (JRC) [S12.706169];
   European Environment Agency (EEA)
FX The present paper stems from activities carried out at the European
   Commission (EC) Joint Research Centre (JRC) in the framework of
   Administrative Arrangement S12.706169 with the EC Directorate General
   (DG) for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries (MARE). The authors wish to
   express their gratitude to the many Colleagues from the JRC, and from
   other EC Services and Agencies, simply too numerous to be listed here,
   who contributed one way or the other (mostly the other) to gathering the
   information above and elaborating the concepts presented in this paper.
   In particular, thanks are due to the DG MARE Colleagues, and especially
   to A.F. Woestyn, who led early developments of the European Atlas of the
   Seas. The European Environment Agency (EEA) has been, and still is,
   hosting the Atlas on its servers, and offered constant support for its
   maintenance. Thanks are also due to two anonymous reviewers, for their
   helpful contributions.
NR 13
TC 2
Z9 2
U1 0
U2 13
PU SPRINGER
PI NEW YORK
PA 233 SPRING ST, NEW YORK, NY 10013 USA
SN 1400-0350
EI 1874-7841
J9 J COAST CONSERV
JI J. Coast. Conserv.
PD FEB
PY 2018
VL 22
IS 1
SI SI
BP 105
EP 113
DI 10.1007/s11852-017-0560-2
PG 9
WC Biodiversity Conservation; Environmental Sciences; Marine & Freshwater
   Biology; Water Resources
WE Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED); Conference Proceedings Citation Index - Science (CPCI-S)
SC Biodiversity & Conservation; Environmental Sciences & Ecology; Marine &
   Freshwater Biology; Water Resources
GA FW0WG
UT WOS:000425016300008
OA Green Published, hybrid
DA 2025-05-29
ER
