PT J
AU Leaman, CK
   Harley, MD
   Splinter, KD
   Thran, MC
   Kinsela, MA
   Turner, IL
AF Leaman, Christopher K.
   Harley, Mitchell D.
   Splinter, Kristen D.
   Thran, Mandi C.
   Kinsela, Michael A.
   Turner, Ian L.
TI A storm hazard matrix combining coastal flooding and beach erosion
SO COASTAL ENGINEERING
LA English
DT Article
DE Coastal erosion; Storm surge; Coastal hazards; Storm impact scale;
   Erosion hazard scale; Hurricane ivan; East coast low; Storm hazard
   forecasting; Early warning systems
ID SHORELINE EROSION; CONTINENTAL-SHELF; INTENSITY SCALE; IMPACT; SYSTEM;
   VARIABILITY; INDICATORS; RECOVERY; ISLAND; BERM
AB Coastal storms cause widespread damage to property, infrastructure, economic activity, and the environment. Along open sandy coastlines, two of the primary coastal storm hazards are coastal flooding by elevated ocean water levels and beach erosion as the result of storm wave action. At continental margins characterized by a shallow, wide continental shelf, coastal storms are more commonly associated with amplified storm surge and the damaging impacts caused by flooding of low-lying land. In contrast, along margins where the continental shelf is narrow and deep, coastal storm impacts are more often characterized by beach erosion, due to the typically lower magnitude of storm surge but a higher proportion of deepwater wave energy reaching the shoreline. A new Storm Hazard Matrix is presented that integrates these two distinct but inherently linked open coast hazards. The approach is based on the combination of two hazard scales. The first is a 'coastal flooding hazard scale' that follows an established framework in which hazards are predominately driven by the vertical increase in ocean water levels during storms and any significant morphological changes caused by the storm are inferred. The second is a storm wave 'beach erosion hazard scale' where hazards are predominately determined by the horizontal recession of the sandy beach and dune without necessarily large increases in water levels. The resulting framework comprises a total of sixteen unique combinations of flooding/erosion storm hazard regimes, each potentially requiring different disaster risk reduction approaches. Real-world application of the Storm Hazard Matrix is explored at contrasting coastlines for two major storm events, encompassing an extratropical cyclone that impacted the coastline of southeast Australia in June 2016, and a large hurricane (Hurricane Ivan) that impacted the Gulf Coast of the United States in 2004. The new approach identifies and distinguishes between the severity of localized coastal flooding and/or coastal erosion, and also provides enhanced insight to the nature, magnitude and alongshore variation of coastal storm hazards along the impacted coastline. Within the context of disaster risk reduction, preparedness and operational early warning, implementation of the Storm Hazard Matrix has the potential to deliver robust evaluations of storm hazards spanning a wider variety of both wave-dominated and surge-dominated coasts.
C1 [Leaman, Christopher K.; Harley, Mitchell D.; Splinter, Kristen D.; Thran, Mandi C.; Turner, Ian L.] UNSW Sydney, Water Res Lab, Sch Civil & Environm Engn, 110 King St, Manly Vale, NSW 2093, Australia.
   [Kinsela, Michael A.] Dept Planning Ind & Environm, Water Wetlands & Coast Sci, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
   [Kinsela, Michael A.] Univ Sydney, Sch Geosci, Geocoastal Res Grp, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
C3 University of New South Wales Sydney; University of Sydney
RP Leaman, CK (通讯作者)，UNSW Sydney, Water Res Lab, Sch Civil & Environm Engn, 110 King St, Manly Vale, NSW 2093, Australia.
EM c.leaman@unsw.edu.au
RI Turner, Ian/H-7122-2014; Splinter, Kristen/A-8024-2013
NR 75
TC 32
Z9 33
U1 7
U2 41
PU ELSEVIER
PI AMSTERDAM
PA RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS
SN 0378-3839
EI 1872-7379
J9 COAST ENG
JI Coast. Eng.
PD DEC
PY 2021
VL 170
AR 104001
DI 10.1016/j.coastaleng.2021.104001
EA SEP 2021
PG 12
WC Engineering, Civil; Engineering, Ocean
WE Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED)
SC Engineering
GA WK2PX
UT WOS:000709574200002
OA Green Submitted, hybrid
DA 2025-05-29
ER
