PT J
AU Eggie, L
   Chow, N
AF Eggie, Lauren
   Chow, Nancy
TI Evolution of a low-energy carbonate ramp, Lower Mississippian Pekisko
   Formation, northwestern Alberta, Canada
SO SEDIMENTARY GEOLOGY
LA English
DT Article
DE Mississippian; Carbonate ramp; Heterozoan carbonates; Syntectonic; Low
   energy; Temperature stratified
ID PEACE RIVER EMBAYMENT; CANNING BASIN; YUCATAN SHELF; FACIES; PLATFORM;
   CIRCULATION; CORDILLERA; SEDIMENTS; DEPOSITS; GULF
AB The lithofacies architecture and depositional evolution of the Lower Mississippian (Tournaisian) Pekisko Formation in the subsurface of the Hawk Hills area in northwestern Alberta have been established by integrating detailed core work and well log data. The formation is composed of skeletal-peloidal limestones and argillaceous limestones that were deposited along the northern flank of the Peace River Embayment, a semi-restricted and tectonically active oceanic re-entrant located along the western margin of Laurasia at low paleolatitude. Lithofacies associations recognized in the study area include the outer ramp to slope (LA 1), outer ramp (LA 2) and mid ramp (LA 3), which are stacked into three decameter-scale, deepening-upward and aggradational cycles that are of regional extent and have meter-scale deepening and shallowing-upward trends. A previously unrecognized paleosol horizon at the top of decameter-scale cycle 2, indicating widespread subaerial exposure of the ramp, is interpreted as a sequence boundary that divides the Pekisko and Shunda formations in the study area (and possibly elsewhere in the Peace River Embayment) into two third-order sequences, each consisting of transgressive and highstand systems tracts. The Pekisko Formation in the study area is interpreted to represent a lowenergy, temperature-stratified ramp that was mainly homoclinal, but with transient, distal steepening occurring in the southern part of the study area. Ramp deposition was strongly affected by basement-fault reactivation causing differential subsidence and uplift in the Peace River Embayment. The paleogeography and paleoceanographic conditions of the embayment favored upwelling currents and development of a temperature-stratified ramp, as well as the formation of heterozoan carbonate deposits and mid ramp facies of predominantly packstones and wackestones. This depositional scenario is atypical, as most other documented examples of the Pekisko Formation and other Lower Mississippian ramp successions in western North America and western Europe are characterized by moderate to high-energy, mid to inner ramp facies deposited in open-ocean conditions. The results of this study contribute to an improved understanding of the range of depositional settings along the western margin of Laurasia during the Early Mississippian and demonstrate the applicability of the thermocline-stratified ramp model, with some modification, to ramps in semi-restricted embayments and other low energy settings. (c) 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http:// creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
C1 [Eggie, Lauren; Chow, Nancy] Univ Manitoba, Dept Earth Sci, Winnipeg, MB R3T 2N2, Canada.
C3 University of Manitoba
RP Chow, N (通讯作者)，Univ Manitoba, Dept Earth Sci, Winnipeg, MB R3T 2N2, Canada.
EM nancy.chow@umanitoba.ca
FU ARC Resources Ltd.; Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of
   Canada [CRDPJ 453127-2013]; University of Manitoba
FX This paper is an outgrowth of the M.Sc. thesis completed by LE at the
   University of Manitoba. This work was supported by ARC Resources Ltd.,
   Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (grant CRDPJ
   453127-2013 to NC; Julie Payette-NSERC Research Scholarship to LE) and
   University of Manitoba (GETS stipend to LE) . John Miller, formerly of
   ARC Resources Ltd., offered guidance and support during the project and
   his valuable contribution is gratefully acknowledged. The staff at the
   Core Research Centre in Calgary, Alberta provided excellent assistance
   during the core work. GeoLOGIC systems ltd. is thanked for their
   contribution of well data and software; all geoLOGIC systems ltd. data
   and software are (C) 2024. Detailed comments provided by reviewer E.
   Matheson, Editor-in-Chief Catherine Chague and two anonymous reviewers
   greatly helped to improve this paper.
NR 117
TC 2
Z9 2
U1 0
U2 0
PU ELSEVIER
PI AMSTERDAM
PA RADARWEG 29, 1043 NX AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS
SN 0037-0738
EI 1879-0968
J9 SEDIMENT GEOL
JI Sediment. Geol.
PD AUG
PY 2024
VL 470
AR 106702
DI 10.1016/j.sedgeo.2024.106702
EA JUL 2024
PG 27
WC Geology
WE Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-EXPANDED)
SC Geology
GA H7S3H
UT WOS:001325399900001
OA hybrid
DA 2025-05-29
ER
